Gabrielė Gervickaitė (1982) is a member of Lithuanian Interdisciplinary Artists’ Association, in 2011 she finished her masters‘ studies in painting at Vilnius Academy of Arts. She entered Fine Arts  doctoral studies in Vilnius Academy of Arts (2020).

Gets grants from The Lithuanian Council for Culture (2015-2020). Won “Young Artist Prize”, 2012  Klaipeda Culture Communication Center, Lithuania), won a CreArt Atelierhaus Salzamt artist's residency in Linz, Austria (2016). The artist participates in various exhibitions in Lithuania and abroad (Estonia – Pärnufotofest, Finland – Turku, Germany – Berlin (Positions), Leipcig, USA - “Opulent Mobility,  (online exhibition “Re*imagine mobility, disability and accessibility”), Katzen Arts Center (American University, Washington, DC), curates artistic social projects – exhibitions:  Body Culture (LGBTQ+), Embassy of Sweden, 2016, Vilnius, LT; Art & video documentary project with young people, “CARE, YOU CARE”, 2014/15, Vilnius, LT. 

The main aspect of G. Gervickaite‘s creative work –  the human medicine industry and its interaction with the body: experiences and memory of pain and healing, surgical interventions, anesthesia. She is working with the image we have about disabilities. Her goal is 
to question the various taboos of disability created through bio politics and media, especially sexuality and intimacy.  

Her PhD research work is going to be about non-normative bodies in bio politics and post-humanism contexts. Especially she is going to research how visible / invisible disabled bodies were visualized and represented in Soviet medical books, how we see and understand less disabled bodies, how mass media creates picture of them. Finally, how capitalistic society exclude and eliminate “invalid” subjects.
